ABSTRACT
Background: Sudden changes (increases and decreases) in training load have been suggested to play a key role in the
development of running-related injuries. However, the compiled evidence for an association between change in
training load and running-related injury does not exist.
Purpose: The purpose of the present systematic review was to compile the evidence from original articles examining
the association between changes in training load and running-related injuries.
Study Design: Systematic review.
Methods: Four databases (Pubmed/Medline, SPORTDiscus, Embase, and Scopus) were systematically searched. Two
reviewers screened titles, abstracts, and full-text articles independently. Articles were included if i) the study design
was a randomized trial, a prospective cohort study, a cross-sectional study or a case-control study, ii) participants
were runners between 18-65 years, and iii) specific information on changes in training load was provided.
Methodological quality of included articles was assessed using the Newcastle Ottawa Scale and the PEDro rating scale.
Results: Four articles fulfilled the eligibility criteria of which three found an association between increases in training
load and an increased risk of running-related injuries: This association was shown by an increased injury risk amongst
runners: i) if they recently had performed one or more changes in either velocity and/or distance and/or frequency
compared with the non-injured runners (p=0.037), ii) increasing their average weekly running distance by more than
30% compared to an increase less than 10% (Hazard Ratio =1.59 (95% Confidence Interval: 0.96; 2.66)), iii) increasing
their total running distance significantly more the week before the injury origin compared with other weeks (mean
difference: 86%; 95% Confidence Interval: 12%; 159%, p=0.026). However, no difference was found between a 10%
and a 24% average increase in weekly volume (HR=0.8, 95% CI: 0.6; 1.3).
Conclusion: Very limited evidence exists supporting that a sudden change in training load is associated with increased
risk of running-related injury.
Level of evidence: 2
Keywords: Etiology, running-related injuries, training load.
TPSJI SYSTEMATIC REVIEW
IS THERE EVIDENCE FOR AN ASSOCIATION BETWEEN
CHANGES IN TRAINING LOAD AND RUNNING-
RELATED INJURIES? A SYSTEMATIC REVIEW
Camma Damsted, MScPT1
Simone Glad, PT2
Rasmus Oestergaard Nielsen, PhD1
Henrik Sørensen, PhD1
Laurent Malisoux, PhD3
CORRESPONDING AUTHOR
1 Section of Sport Science, Department of Public Health,
Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark Camma Damsted
2 University College Lillebaelt, Odense, Denmark
Section of Sport Science, Department of Public
3 Sports Medicine Research Laboratory, Department of
Population Health, Luxembourg Institute of Health, Health
Luxembourg Aarhus University, Dalgas Avenue 4, DK-8000
Confl icts of interest Aarhus C
None of the authors have any confl icts of interest, including
E-mail: camma@ph.au.dk
relevant fi nancial interests, activities, relationships, and
affi liations. Telephone: +45 87 16 84 92
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 931
DOI: 10.26603/ijspt20180931

INTRODUCTION volume, duration, intensity, and frequency of run-
Unravelling the etiology of running-related injury ning) and RRI, training error in a specific training
(RRI) has received extensive scientific attention characteristic could not be identified. However, con-
throughout the past decades. A vast number of dif- siderations about sudden changes in the training
ferent risk factors for injury have been proposed, load were not considered as a potential injury mech-
such as foot strike patterns, age, gender, body mass anism.2-7,14 With the current high focus on sudden
index (BMI), anthropometrics, footwear properties changes in training load, as well as the use of more
and anatomical factors, with absence of clear sup- complex statistical approaches in sports medicine,12
port for many of them.1 A history of previous injury new evidence might be available. Therefore, the pur-
is consistently reported in the literature as a strong pose of the present systematic review was to compile
risk factor for injury development; however, owing the evidence from original articles examining the
to its non-modifiable nature, the relevance of includ- association between changes in training load and
ing it as a factor in an effective injury prevention running-related injuries.
intervention strategy is minor. Conversely, focusing
on readily modifiable and causal plausible factors, METHODS
such as scheduling of training load, has been sug-
Literature Search
gested to have greater impact on RRI development.
The first and the second author (CD and SG)
Therefore, investigation of the role of training load performed an electronic literature search in four
as the main exposure of interest is essential to suc- databases (Pubmed/Medline, SPORTDiscus, Embase,
ceed with developing effective injury prevention Scopus) from their inception to April 31st 2017. Data-
strategies. Within sports injury research, the phe- base limits were set to published articles or articles in
nomenon “training too much, too soon”, or a sudden press written in English. A certified research librarian
increase in training load, has been acknowledged at Aarhus University Library, Denmark supervised
to play a key role on injury development.2-8 This the building of the search string through using the
phenomenon also seems to resonate within RRI PICOS approach.15 The complete search strategy for
research,9,10 and furthermore, is being highlighted all four databases are provided in Appendix 1.
by runners and coaches as especially important in
relation to injury development.11 From a theoreti- Study selection
cal viewpoint, injury occurs when the cumulative All articles were systematically and independently
training load, over one or several running sessions screened for eligibility by three reviewers (CD, SG
exceeds the body’s load capacity for adaptive tissue and LM). All titles and abstracts were screened by
repair;2,9 training load comprises several variables CD and SG, and eligible articles retrieved in full text
(e.g. running distance, number of steps or strides, were carefully read by CD and LM. To be eligible
running pace or speed, and time spent running). for inclusion, the articles had to fulfill the following
Consequently, running data should be analyzed criteria:
using changes in training load between each run-
Inclusion criteria:
ning session (or short period of time), as training
load continuously changes over time and therefore 1) The research of interest was specifically focused
should be considered as a time-dependent variable.12 on changes in training load in relation to RRI;
This approach seems more appropriate to illuminate
2) the study design was a randomized trial, a pro-
RRI etiology compared with examining running
spective cohort study, a cross-sectional study or
data as fixed, absolute, weekly mean values, or with
a case-control study;
investigating non-training-related risk factors for
injury that simply identify sub-populations at higher 3) the study participants were between the age of
or lower risk of injury. 18 and 65 years;
In a previous systematic review13 aiming to investigate 4) participants were runners (novice runners,
the association between training characteristic (i.e. recreational runners, elite runners, distance
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 932

runners, long-distance runners, road runners, trail the present review by excluding two of the 11 cri-
runners, marathoners, ultra-marathon runners, teria; Criterion 4 was excluded because an exposed
extreme runners, track athletes, cross-country versus non-exposed cohort was irrelevant as long as
runners or orienteers); the total study population was exposed to running,
and Criterion 7 was excluded because it was linked
Exclusion criteria:
to Criterion 4 comparing the exposed with the non-
1) running was not the participants’ primary sport exposed cohort. These modifications decreased the
activity, e.g. football players, soccer players; highest possible quality score to 9 stars.
2) the RRI was not a musculoskeletal injury (i.e. The methodological quality of the included, ran-
blisters, skin abrasions, delayed onset muscle domized trial was rated using the PEDro rating
soreness or superficial bruises; scale, which is based on the Delphi list developed
by Verhagen and colleagues.19 The PEDro scale also
3) study subjects were military or army recruits;
contains 11 criteria to assess the risk of bias, which
In cases of disagreements between the reviewers are as follows: 1) eligibility criteria were specified;
regarding inclusion or exclusion of an article, a con- 2) participants were randomly allocated to groups;
sensus meeting was held and if no consensus was 3) allocation was concealed; 4) groups were similar
reached, a fourth reviewer (RON) made the final at baseline; 5) blinding of all participants; 6) blind-
decision. ing of all therapists who administered the interven-
tion; 7) blinding of all assessors who measured at
Quality Assessment least one key outcome; 8) measures of at least one
The methodological quality assessment of the key outcome were obtained for more than 85% of
included full text articles was performed by three participants initially allocated to groups; 9) data for
authors (CD, SG and LM) in an independent and at least one key outcome was analyzed by “inten-
blinded manner. The Newcastle Ottawa Scale (NOS) tion-to-treat”; 10) results of between-group statistical
was chosen for assessing the quality of the included comparisons reported for at least one key outcome;
non-randomized studies due to its previous use 11) study provided both point measures and mea-
within RRI.16,17 Furthermore, the NOS is reported as sures of variability for at least one key outcome. In
one of two most useful tools by the Cochrane Hand- a recently published study by Yamato et al. 2017,20
book for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and the use of the PEDro scale demonstrated both high
allows customization to the review question of inter- validity and inter-rater reliability when compared to
est.18 The original NOS contains 11 criteria designed the Cochrane back and neck risk of bias tool.21
to assess the risk of bias, and uses a star rating sys-
The total methodological quality of each included
tem to indicate the quality of a study. The 11 criteria
article was expressed in percent by calculating the
are as follows: 1) description of runners or type of
number of criteria being fulfilled divided by the
runners; 2) definition of the running-related injury;
total number of possible ratings. All disagreements
3) representativeness of the exposed cohort; 4) selec-
between the researchers in relation to the method-
tion of the non-exposed cohort; 5) ascertainment of
ological quality assessment were resolved by a con-
exposure; 6) demonstration that outcome of interest
sensus meeting between the assessors (CD, SG, LM).
was not present at the start of the study; 7) com-
parability of cohorts on the basis of the design or
Data Extraction
analysis; 8) assessment of outcome; 9) was follow-up
Two authors (CD and LM) independently extracted
long enough for outcomes to occur; 10) adequacy of
the following information and data from the
follow-up of cohorts; and 11) statistic measurement
included studies; 1) first author and date, 2) injury
of risk association.
type, 3) definition of exposure, 4) specification of
The highest possible quality score in the original exposure and 5) results. In case of any doubts about
version is 12 stars (it is possible to award Criterion 7 the extracted data, a meeting was held between the
with two stars). However, the tool was modified for three authors (RON, CD, LM) to clarify the accuracy
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 933

of the data. The interpretation of results included Risk of Bias Assessment
the proportion of injured and non-injured runners, Information on potential risk of bias for the included
the mean difference between them, measures of studies is shown in Table 2. Among the non-ran-
associations, and the corresponding level of statisti- domized studies, 23,24 the most frequent reasons for
cal significance. decreased quality scores were: low external validity,
a follow-up period shorter than 12 weeks, and lack
RESULTS of reporting a measure of association, while the risk
of bias was more related to the absence of blinding
Literature Search
procedures in the included randomized trial.22
A total of 8,242 articles were identified through
searching the four databases. Of those, 2,399 were
duplicates, leaving 5,843 articles for screening of the Changes in Training Load and RRI
title and abstract. An overview of the existing evidence for the asso-
ciation between a change in training load and RRI
Primary screening resulted in exclusion of 5,779
is presented in Table 3. Overall, a tendency toward
articles, leaving 64 articles eligible for full assessment
an increased injury risk following a sudden increase
one of which was not available in full text. While
in training load was identified in three out of the
assessing the remaining 63 full texts in accordance four studies included10,23,24. Cantidio et al.24 (22%
with the eligibility criteria, the reference list within
methodological quality assessment score) showed
each article were screened to identify potential new
that a significantly higher proportion of the injured
articles that were not found in the primary literature
runners had recently changed one or more of the
search. By this process, two additional articles were
running variables (velocity, distance, volume or fre-
identified as eligible, and thus included in the assess-
quency) compared with the non-injured runners
ment of full text articles. Out of the total 65 articles (p=0.037). In Nielsen et al.23 (67% methodological
assessed in full text, 61 were excluded primarily due
quality assessment score), two different analyses
to no available information about changes in training
related to an increase in running distance were
load. The remaining four articles were included in the
reported. First, the runners who developed an
quality assessment. The selection process of the liter-
injury during follow-up had increased their average
ature is presented in the PRISMA diagram (Figure 1). weekly running distance with 31.6±3.1%, while the
average for the runners that stayed injury free was
Description of the included articles 22.1±2.1% (p=0.07). Second, the mean difference
In Table 1, the included studies are described between the increase in the running distance the
according to: 1) year of publication; 2) country of week before the onset of an injury and the average
origin; 3) study design; 4) study population; 5) sam- weekly increase during other weeks was found to be
ple size of participants; 6) baseline characteristics 86% (95% confidence interval (95% CI): 12.9; 159.9,
including injury history; 7) the collection method p=0.026). In the other study by Nielsen et al.10
for the running data; 8) the collection method for the (100% methodological quality assessment score), an
injury status; 9) injury definition. In three studies, all increased Hazard Ratio (HR)=1.59 (95% CI: 0.96;
participants were injury free prior to baseline,10,22,23 2.66) for distance-related injuries (i.e. patellofemoral
whereas in one study, a group of injured runners was pain, iliotibial band syndrome, medial tibial stress
compared to a group of non-injured runners.24 In the syndrome, gluteus medius injury, greater trochan-
study by Cantidio et al.24 the proportion of runners teric bursitis, injury to the tensor fascia latae and
who reported recent variations in one or more of patellar tendinopathy) was found when increasing
the running variables among the two groups (the the weekly running distance by more than 30%
injured and the non-injured runners) was presented, compared to a less than 10% change (increase or
whereas no result for statistical comparison was decrease)
provided. Therefore, as all data were available to run
a Chi-square test this was performed by the present In contrast with the three studies above, the
authors in order to compare the two proportions. randomized trial by Buist et al.22 (73% methodological
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 934

Figure 1. The PRISMA diagram visualizing the selection process of articles for the present systematic review.
quality assessment score) found that the novice DISCUSSION
runners who followed the graded training
Main Findings
program characterized by a 10% average increase
in weekly volume were not at a lower injury risk The aim of the present systematic review was to
(HR= 0.8, 95% CI: 0.6; 1.3) when compared to search the literature for articles examining the
the novice runners who followed the standard association between changes (progressions and
training program (24% average increase in weekly regressions) in training load and RRI. Four articles
volume). were included and of these, three studies found an
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 935

Table 1.
Table 2.
increased risk of injury development following either comparing two intervention groups (a graded train-
a sudden increase in running distance between two ing program with 10% average increase in weekly
weeks 10,23, or a non-specific recent change in one or volume vs. a standard training program with 24%
more of the training variables velocity, distance, vol- average increase in weekly volume). Thus, very lim-
ume or frequency during the past weeks (no avail- ited evidence exists supporting that sudden changes
able data on the timing of this sudden change)24. In are associated with increased injury risk among run-
contrast, in the fourth included study, Buist et al.22, ners. As it may be plausible to assume that excessive
found no difference was found in injury risk when progression in training load is associated with
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 936

Table 3. Results.
increased injury risk, it is emphasized that future defined in all four studies, but failure to report mea-
studies are highly needed to better define the role sures of association, short follow-up periods, and
of sudden changes on RRI occurrence in a causal lack of generalizability were observed in two of the
perspective.25 prospective cohort studies.23,24 Also, the randomized
trial did not include any blinding procedure.22
Study QualityAassessment
The overall methodological quality of the studies Defi nition of Change
included in the present systematic review is var- In the articles in the current systematic review
ied. The study populations and RRI were accurately a change was defined as the change in running
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 937

distance or running volume from one week to the reference group increasing less than 10% while
another, or more specifically, as “a recent change in no difference was found for the group increasing by
one or more training variables”. Several other def- 10%-29% compared with the reference group. How-
initions have been used within the body of sports ever, it should be noted that in the study by Buist
injury research such as the “acute:chronic workload et al.,22 an average increase in weekly volume was
ratio”26 or a rolling average seven days prior to the used (13 weeks and eight weeks for the study group
injury.27 Other ways of understanding, defining and increasing 10% and 24%, respectively). In the study
analyzing the role of changes in training load have by Nielsen et al.,10 the examination of the association
been proposed including non-linear relationships in between training characteristics and RRI focused on
terms of U-shaped patterns,13 exponentially weighted the comparison between one week and the next, but
moving averages28 or the role of sudden sharp spikes multiple changes over time were not accounted for.
of training load in the training regime.5,26 In the study by Cantidio et al.24 a higher proportion
of runners with recent training changes were found
Independent of the way changes have been defined
among the injured group compared to the non-
and the statistical approaches used, the main sci-
injured group. However, it was neither specified
entific aim is to shed light upon: What defines a
to which extend nor direction the training load
change? Which magnitude of sudden changes has
changed, and thus, it is not possible to quantify the
clinical relevance in relation to injury risk? Despite
size of a potentially injurious sudden change in
the substantial attention that these questions have
training load based on the results. Therefore, based
paid, no clear consensus has been reached yet.29
on the four included studies, no evidence was found
This demonstrates the need for identifying which to support a well-defined threshold for hazardous
definition of change(s) appears to have the stron- sudden changes in training load above which the
gest association with injury development in order risk of injury development is significantly increased.
to explore if one definition turns out to be more rel- Such a threshold might be specific to the definition
evant compared to others, bearing in mind that one and the method used to assess sudden changes, and
definition might be clinically relevant for a specific above all, to the population of runners investigated.
sports discipline or population while less valuable in Given that the absolute training load was low in the
another contexts. populations investigated so far (e.g. total distance
over a full year period less than 10 kilometers), a
Defi ning an Upper Limit for Sudden small increase in training load might result in a large
Increases relative sudden increase (e.g. increasing from 2 to 3
When examined from a practical and clinical km per week represents an absolute difference of 1
perspective, the results from the present systematic km but a relative sudden increase of 50%). These
review reveal that no evidence exists for the use of runners’ profiles cannot be compared to other popu-
the so-called “10% rule”, which is commonly used lations of runners with larger training load (e.g. a
by runners, coaches and clinicians as a guideline competitive runner running 100 km per week would
for a maximum increase in training load per week.30 only observe a 3% sudden increase in training load
Buist et al. 200822 compared injury risk based on with an absolute increase of 3 km from one week
an average increase in weekly volume of 10% and to the next, and he would have to increase training
24%, but did not find any difference between the load by 50 km per week to observe a 50% sudden
two groups. An average weekly increase in training change).
load of 24% may not be sufficiently large to reflect
the mechanism of running too much, too soon in Limitations
novice runners. This interpretation is in accordance The main limitations of the present study include:
with the findings by Nielsen et al.10 who found that 1) the number of relevant databases that were
the injurious mechanism of sudden increase hap- searched: 2) the screening of articles for eligibility
pened for the novice runners increasing their aver- and 3) the limited generalizability of the findings.
age weekly distance more than 30% compared with Regarding the databases the four largest (Pubmed/
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 938

Medline, SPORTDiscus, Embase, Scopus) and most 2. Soligard T, Schwellnus M, Alonso JM, et al. How
relevant for the specific research question in the much is too much? (Part 1) International Olympic
Committee consensus statement on load in sport
present systematic review were searched. However,
and risk of injury. Br J Sports Med. 2016;50(17):1030-
other databases such as PEDro and Web of Science
1041.
could also have been relevant. In relation to the
3. Schwellnus M, Soligard T, Alonso JM, et al. How
screening of articles for provision of information
much is too much? (Part 2) International Olympic
about changes in training load, this was performed
Committee consensus statement on load in sport
on an abstract level in order to screen out articles and risk of illness. Br J Sports Med. 2016;50(17):1043-
just reporting the difference in injury risk between 1052.
different subgroups of runners having performed a 4. Gabbett TJ, Hulin BT, Blanch P, Whiteley R. High
different weekly average. However, it is unknown training workloads alone do not cause sports
if some articles deemed ineligible at this stage may injuries: how you get there is the real issue. Br J
Sports Med. 2016;50(8):444-445.
have contained information about training load and
5. Gabbett TJ. The training-injury prevention paradox:
injury that would have been evident if evaluated in
should athletes be training smarter and harder? Br J
full-text. Considering the generalizability of the find-
Sports Med. 2016;50(5):273-280.
ings, this is an important issue to address as all the
6. Drew MK, Finch CF. The relationship between
studies included in the present systematic review
training load and injury, illness and soreness: A
only involved “novice” and “amateur” runners,
systematic and literature review. Sports Med.
which limits the applicability of the findings to other 2016;46(6):861-883.
populations of runners. Finally, due to the hetero-
7. Windt J, Gabbett TJ. How do training and
geneity observed in the study designs, the runners’ competition workloads relate to injury? The
profiles, as well as the methods used for data collec- workload-injury aetiology model. Br J Sports Med.
tion and analysis of changes in training load, com- 2017;51(5):428-435.
parison of the results of the four included studies in 8. Windt J, Zumbo BD, Sporer B, MacDonald K,
the present systematic review must be performed Gabbett TJ. Why do workload spikes cause injuries,
and which athletes are at higher risk? Mediators and
with caution.
moderators in workload-injury investigations. Br J
Sports Med. 2017;51(13):993-994.
CONCLUSIONS
9. Hreljac A. Etiology, prevention, and early
Very limited evidence exists supporting that changes
intervention of overuse injuries in runners: a
(increases and decreases) in training load are asso-
biomechanical perspective. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N
ciated with injury development. Specifically, no Am. 2005;16(3):651-667.
evidence was found to support the use of the so-called
10. Nielsen RO, Parner ET, Nohr EA, Sorensen H, Lind
“10% rule”, which is commonly used by runners, M, Rasmussen S. Excessive progression in weekly
coaches and clinicians as a guideline for a maxi- running distance and risk of running-related
mum increases in training load per week. Actually, injuries: an association which varies according to
type of injury. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther.
a well-defined threshold for hazardous or sudden
2014;44(10):739-747.
changes in training load above which the risk of
11. Saragiotto BT, Yamato TP, Lopes AD. What do
injury development is significantly increased is still
recreational runners think about risk factors for
unknown. Future studies in runners of varied abili-
running injuries? A descriptive study of their beliefs
ties are needed to better define the role of changes
and opinions. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther.
on RRI occurrence in a causal perspective using 2014;44(10):733-738.
methodological approaches that take into account
12. Nielsen RO, Malisoux L, Moller M, Theisen D, Parner
the time-varying nature of changes in training load. ET. Shedding light on the etiology of sports injuries:
A look behind the scenes of time-to-event analyses. J
REFERENCES Orthop Sports Phys Ther. 2016;46(4):300-311.
1. Hulme A, Nielsen RO, Timpka T, Verhagen E, Finch 13. Nielsen RO, Buist I, Sorensen H, Lind M, Rasmussen
C. Risk and protective factors for middle- and S. Training errors and running related injuries: a
long-distance running-related injury. Sports Med. systematic review. Int J Sports Phys Ther.
2017;47(5):869-886. 2012;7(1):58-75.
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 939

14. Windt J, Zumbo BD, Sporer B, MacDonald K, 23. Nielsen RO, Cederholm P, Buist I, Sorensen H, Lind
Gabbett TJ. Why do workload spikes cause injuries, M, Rasmussen S. Can GPS be used to detect
and which athletes are at higher risk? Mediators and deleterious progression in training volume among
moderators in workload-injury investigations. Br J runners? J Strength Cond Res. 2013;27(6):1471-1478.
Sports Med. 2017 Jul;51(13):993-994. 24. Cantídio Ferreira A, Cabral Dias JM, de Melo
15. Higgins JPT GS, editors. Cochrane handbook for Fernandes R, Schayer Sabino G, dos Anjos MTS,
systematic reviews of interventions version 5.1.0. Carvalho DF. Prevalence and associated risks of
2008; Chapter 5. Available at: http://www.cochrane- injury in amateur street runners from belo
handbook.org. Accessed 16 February 2017. horizonte, mg. Rev Bras Med Esporte. 2012;18(4):252-
16. Videbæk S, Bueno A, Nielsen R, Rasmussen S. 255.
Incidence of running-related injuries per 1000 h of 25. Bertelsen ML, Hulme A, Petersen J, et al. A
running in different types of runners: A systematic framework for the etiology of running-related
review and meta-analysis. Sports Med. injuries. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2017;27(11):1170-
2015;45(7):1017-1026. 1180.
17. Saragiotto BT, Yamato TP, Hespanhol Junior LC, 26. Hulin BT, Gabbett TJ, Lawson DW, Caputi P,
Rainbow MJ, Davis IS, Lopes AD. What are the main Sampson JA. The acute:chronic workload ratio
risk factors for running-related injuries? Sports Med. predicts injury: high chronic workload may decrease
2014;44(8):1153-1163. injury risk in elite rugby league players. Br J Sports
18. Cochrane. Tools for assessing methodological quality Med. 2016;50(4):231-236.
or risk of bias in non-randomized studies. 2017; 27. Kluitenberg B, van der Worp H, Huisstede BM, et al.
http://handbook.cochrane.org/chapter_13/13_ The NLstart2run study: Training-related factors
5_2_3_tools_for_assessing_methodological_quality_ associated with running-related injuries in novice
or_risk_of.htm. runners. J Sci Med Sport. 2016;19(8):642-646.
19. Verhagen AP, de Vet HC, de Bie RA, et al. The Delphi 28. Murray NB, Gabbett TJ, Townshend AD, Blanch P.
list: a criteria list for quality assessment of Calculating acute:chronic workload ratios using
randomized clinical trials for conducting systematic exponentially weighted moving averages provides a
reviews developed by Delphi consensus. J Clin more sensitive indicator of injury likelihood than
Epidemiol. 1998;51(12):1235-1241. rolling averages. Br J Sports Med. 2017;51(9):749-754.
20. Yamato TP, Maher C, Koes B, Moseley A. The PEDro 29. Bourdon PC, Cardinale M, Murray A, et al.
scale had acceptably high convergent validity, Monitoring Athlete Training Loads: Consensus
construct validity, and interrater reliability in Statement. Int J Sports Physiol Perform. 2017;12(Suppl
evaluating methodological quality of pharmaceutical 2):S2161-S2170.
trials. J Clin Epidemiol. 2017;86:176-181. 30. Johnston CAM, Taunton JE., Lloyd-Smith DR.,
21. Furlan AD, Malmivaara A, Chou R, et al. 2015 McKenzie DC. Preventing running injuries - Practical
Updated method guideline for systematic reviews in approach for family doctors. Can Fam Physician.
the Cochrane back and neck group. Spine). 2003;49:1101-1109.
2015;40(21):1660-1673.
22. Buist I, Bredeweg SW, van Mechelen W, Lemmink
KA, Pepping GJ, Diercks RL. No effect of a graded
training program on the number of running-related
injuries in novice runners: a randomized controlled
trial. Am J Sports Med. 2008;36(1):33-39.
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 940

APPENDIX 1
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 941

APPENDIX 1 (continued)
The International Journal of Sports Physical Therapy | Volume 13, Number 6 | December 2018 | Page 942

